♪
MICHAEL: IN OUR CLASSES, THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MUSIC AND
EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT IS
EVIDENT. WE HAVE BABIES IN OUR
CLASSES. WE HAVE
TODDLERS IN OUR CLASSES.
MICHAEL: WHEN I'M SPINNIN'
ROUND I'M AS HAPPY AS A KID CAN
BE!
JOANNA: HE'S INSPIRING THE
NEXT GENERATION OF TINY LITTLE
ROCKERS, AND IT SEEMS HE'S
HAVING QUITE A BIT OF FUN IN THE
PROCESS. HE'S MICHAEL
NAPOLITANO, FOUNDER AND DIRECTOR
OF PRESCHOOL OF ROCK.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
MICHAEL: THANK
YOU FOR HAVING ME.
JOANNA: SO GLAD TO HAVE
YOU. LOVE THIS CONCEPT, LOVE THE
IDEA. WHERE DID IT COME FROM?
MICHAEL: UM, IT CAME
FROM HAVING CHILDREN.
JOANNA: YES.
MICHAEL: RIGHT. SO I, I WAS A
ROCK AND ROLL MUSICIAN, KINDA
LONGER HAIR. LOOKED A LITTLE
DIFFERENT PRE-CHILDREN, YOU
KNOW, PRE KIDS, PK. AND UH,
AND THEN UH, YOU KNOW, I TOOK MY
DAUGHTER TO SOME MUSIC CLASSES
AND WE REALLY ENJOYED IT BUT I,
FOR ME, IT WAS A LITTLE SOFTER,
AND MORE GENTLE, UH, AND LESS
INTERACTIVE THAN I WANTED MY
CHILD TO EXPERIENCE, AND I KIND
OF HAD ALL THE INSTRUMENTS AT
HOME, SO, WE STARTED DOIN' STUFF
AT HOME. I STARTED WRITING
SONGS, NEXT THING YOU KNEW, UH,
I GUESS I WAS GOOD AT IT BECAUSE
PEOPLE WANTED TO COME. I STARTED
THROWING A CLASS, PEOPLE WANTED
TO COME, NEXT THING YOU KNEW,
MORE PEOPLE WANTED TO COME, AND
I GOT ANOTHER TEACHER, AND THEN
ANOTHER TEACHER, AND, AND I HAVE
THIS UH, KIND OF CATALOGUE OF
WONDERFUL MUSICIANS THAT
WORK WITH US NOW, AND UH-
JOANNA: YOU'RE NOW IN 11
LOCATIONS THROUGHOUT NEW JERSEY
AND NEW YORK.
MICHAEL: YEP, I WOULD SAY MORE
THAN THAT BUT UH, BUT WE CAN SAY
11.
JOANNA: NO, SAY WHAT IT IS.
MICHAEL: I DON'T KNOW, I
THINK IT'S IN THE TWENTIES NOW.
JOANNA: LOOK AT THAT. SO ABOUT
20, AND THIS IS A WHOLE NEW
CONCEPT BECAUSE, AND I, I DON'T
WANT TO DISPARAGE ANYONE ELSE
'CAUSE THERE ARE A LOT OF
TERRIFIC MUSIC PROGRAMS.
MICHAEL: YES.
JOANNA: SO WHAT MAKES THIS ONE
A LITTLE BIT EDGIER, A LITTLE
BIT MORE FUN, A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT?
MICHAEL: UH, OUR TEACHER
DOESN'T SIT DOWN. THAT'S ONE
THING.
JOANNA: IS THAT YOU?
MICHAEL: YEAH, YEAH, THAT'S
ME. AND THERE'S OTHER PEOPLE, SO
THEY KIND OF HAVE TO EMULATE MY
SPIRIT, WHICH HAS ALWAYS BEEN
VERY ENERGETIC, AND SINCE I WAS
A YOUNG ONE. UH, I WAS KIND OF
THE FIRST PRESCHOOL OF ROCKER.
MY DAD WAS A DRUMMER IN BANDS,
SO I WAS AT REHERSALS.
JOANNA: SO YOU WERE
INDOCTRINATED INTO THIS REALLY.
MICHAEL: YES. YEAH, IT WAS
LIKE, MY FATHER INVENTED THE
CLASS. HE DOESN'T EVEN KNOW IT.
AND UH, SO THANKS DAD. AND UM,
YOU KNOW, WHAT, WE DON'T SIT
DOWN. IT'S A WHOLE ROCK N' ROLL
EXPERIENCE. IT'S LIKE A SHOW,
AND THE KIDS ARE PART OF THE
SHOW. THEY GET THEIR OWN
INSTRUMENTS, AND THEY GET TO
EXPLORE OUR
INSTRUMENTS EACH WEEK.
JOANNA: WHAT IS IT ABOUT THE
PHYSICALITY OF IT THAT YOU THINK
ENGAGES THE KIDS?
MICHAEL: UM, YOU KNOW, IF
SOMEONE'S JUMPING, THEY'RE GONNA
JUMP. IF SOMEONE'S DANCING,
THEY'RE GONNA DANCE. IF THEY'RE
NOT, IT, IF THE TEACHER'S
SITTING DOWN AND JUST STRUMMING
THE GUITAR, A LOT OF MUSIC
CLASSES PLAY PLAYBACK, IT'S NOT,
DOESN'T REALLY ENGAGE THEM. THEY
NEED, ESPECIALLY IN OUR WORLD,
YOU KNOW, OUR CHILDREN ARE
AFFECTED BY THE, THE CONSTANT
UH, IMAGES AND TV, SO, UM,
HAVING A LIVE PERFORMANCE IN
FRONT OF YOU THAT YOU FEEL LIKE
YOU'RE INVOLVED WITH REALLY,
REALLY AFFECTS THEM GREATLY.
JOANNA: YOU THINK THEY
EXPERIENCE THE MUSIC DIFFERENTLY
THAT WAY?
MICHAEL: YES, I DO. YES. I, I
THINK, I THINK WHEN SOMEONE IS
ACTUALLY PLAYING IN FRONT OF 'EM
AND WHACKIN' ON A DRUM, AND THEY
GET TO COME UP AND WHACK ON THE
DRUM THEY FEEL AN OWNERSHIP OVER
THE CLASS, OVER THE MUSIC
ITSELF, YEAH.
JOANNA: CAN WE TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT YOUR HISTORY?
MICHAEL: SURE, YEAH.
JOANNA: WITH THE
BLUE MAN GROUP.
MICHAEL: YEAH. UM, BLUE MAN
WAS A, IS A HUGE INFLUENCE ON ME
STILL. UH, IT WAS A WONDERFUL
EXPERIENCE FOR ME. UM, I HAD-
JOANNA: TALK
ABOUT YOUR ROLE IN IT.
MICHAEL: YEAH, I HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO WORK WITH THE
FOUNDERS OF THE COMPANY IN A
SMALL GROUP AND UH, OF OTHER
PEOPLE, VERY TALENTED CREATIVES
THAT DEVELOP NEW CONTENT, AND
WHATEVER THE MAD GENIUSES WANTED
TO BRING OUT THERE, WE HAD TO
MAKE IT HAPPEN. AND THAT
INVOLVED SO MUCH PRODUCTION,
CREATIVE PRODUCTION AND, AND
FIGURING STUFF OUT AND TONS OF
INTERESTING INSTRUMENTS. YOU
KNOW, I USED TO TUNE THE TUBES,
AND, AND UH, CREATE INSTRUMENTS
WITH THESE TECH, AMAZING
TECHNICAL UH, DEVELOPERS. SO
UH, THAT HAS TRANSFERRED INTO
PRESCHOOL OF ROCK BECAUSE-
JOANNA: HOW?
MICHAEL: WE USE
A LOT OF DRUMS.
IT'S ALL ABOUT DRUMMING.
SO, IN MY CLASSES, OUR
CLASSES, IT'S ALL ABOUT
DRUMMING. EVERY WEEK WE HAVE
SOME TYPE OF DRUMMING ACTIVITY,
UH, 'CAUSE I REALLY DO FEEL LIKE
THAT'S THE GATEWAY TO THE SOUL,
TO MUSIC, FOR TODDLERS IT'S HARD
TO MAKE CHORDS ON A GUITAR. BUT
YOU CAN WHACK ON A DRUM AT, YOU
KNOW, SIX MONTHS YOU CAN
'EEP'.
JOANNA: ABSOLUTELY.
MICHAEL: 12
MONTHS, A LITTLE LOUDER.
JOANNA: YEAH.
MICHAEL: YOU KNOW, 18 MONTHS,
TWO HANDS. YOU KNOW, SO.
JOANNA: YOU SAY THAT THERE'S
A, A STRONG CONNECTION BETWEEN
LITERACY AND MUSIC. WHAT IS
THAT? WHAT HAVE YOU EXPERIENCED
WITH YOUR OWN CHILDREN?
MICHAEL: I MEAN, THERE'S A,
TONS OF RESEARCH OUT THERE, BUT
IN THE MOST SIMPLE SENSE, IF
YOU'RE LISTENING TO MUSIC WITH
LYRICS, AND THE CHILDREN AREN'T
REALLY, THEY'RE NOT READING YET,
AND THEY'RE, THEY'RE, YOU KNOW,
BARELY SPEAKING, A LOT OF 'EM, I
HAD A CHILD TODAY IN MY CLASS,
LITTLE MIKEY, HE'S LIKE, I DON'T
KNOW, 18 MONTHS, AND HE'S LIKE,
WE HAVE A PARTNER SONG, YOU PUT
UP YOUR HANDS, AND YOU SAY
HELLO, MAN. AND HE GOES 'HELLO
MAN'. I'VE NEVER HEARD THE CHILD
TALK BEFORE. SO THERE'S YOUR
EARLY LITERACY. THEY SING
ALONG TO THE SONGS, UM-
JOANNA: I HAVE THE SAME THING
IN MY HOUSE. MY SON IS 18 MONTHS
OLD-
MICHAEL: YEAH?
JOANNA: AND HE, HE BARELY SAYS
ANY WORDS, BUT IF YOU SING A
SONG TO HIM HE'LL SING
THE WORDS BACK TO YOU.
MICHAEL: THERE YOU GO.
JOANNA: SO ABSOLUTELY-
MICHAEL: THAT'S, THAT'S
THE PROOF IS RIGHT THERE.
JOANNA: IT, SOMEHOW IT
PROCESSES IN THEIR BRAIN
DIFFERENTLY, AND I DON'T KNOW
HOW THAT HAPPENS BUT IT'S PRETTY
SPECIAL-
MICHAEL: PRETTY INCREDIBLE.
YOU KNOW, MUSIC IS THAT THING,
IT'S, IT'S NOT TANGIBLE, BUT
EVERYONE ENJOYS IT. IT'S, BRINGS
EVERYONE TOGETHER.
JOANNA: CAN WE TALK
ABOUT MICHAEL AND THE ROCKNESS
MONSTERS?
MICHAEL: YES.
JOANNA: YOU'RE STILL A
ROCK STAR, BUT FOR KIDS.
MICHAEL: THAT
BAND, FOR FAMILIES.
JOANNA: FOR FAMILIES.
MICHAEL: LEMME TELL YA, THIS
BAND IS SO GOOD. THE, THESE GUYS
I'M PLAYIN' WITH ARE SO, SO
TALENTED, UM, I DON'T EVEN PLAY
THE GUITAR A LOT OF THE TIME, I
JUST PUT IT DOWN AND RUN AROUND
LIKE A, LIKE A, YOU KNOW,
GREAT, ROCK STAR. YOU KNOW BUT-
JOANNA: YOU HAVE A LOT
OF ENERGY, DON'T YOU?
MICHAEL: I DO, I DO.
JOANNA: I'M GETTING THAT VIBE.
MICHAEL: I DO, UM, WHAT ARE
WE DOIN' AFTER THIS?
JOANNA: YEAH, RIGHT. WE'RE,
WE'RE PLAYIN'. WE'RE GONNA JAM
OUT.
MICHAEL: THAT'S RIGHT, THAT'S
RIGHT. MICHAEL AND THE ROCKNESS
MONSTERS IS GREAT. UH, WE, WE
JUST HAD A SHOW AT SYMPHONY
SPACE IN MANHATTAN, SOLD THAT
OUT. WE'LL BE AT THE WOODLAND IN
UH, MAPLEWOOD COMING UP AND
UH, AND WE GET AROUND. WE GET
AROUND. WE PLAY SOME GOOD SHOWS.
JOANNA: WHY'D YOU DO THIS?
WHY'D YOU START THIS BAND?
MICHAEL: UM, YOU KNOW, OUR
CHILDREN AGE OUT, YOU KNOW, SO,
AFTER 4, UNLESS WE'RE IN
PRESCHOOLS, WE REALLY DON'T SEE
THE CHILDREN SO THEN THIS GIVES
US AN OPPORTUNITY TO SEE THOSE
CHILDREN AGAIN, AND MY CHILDREN
ARE 7 AND 9 NOW, NOT TO DATE
MYSELF, BUT, I WANT THEM,
SOMETHING FOR THEM TO ENJOY.
JOANNA: YES.
MICHAEL: AND MICHAEL AND THE
ROCKNESS IS, IS PRETTY HIP. IT'S
PRETTY COOL.
JOANNA: WOW, THAT WAS MY
QUESTION. DO THEY STILL THINK
YOU'RE COOL?
MICHAEL: THEY DO.
JOANNA: AT 7 AND 9
YOU STILL HAVE IT.
MICHAEL: THEY SING ON THE
RECORDS. THEY HELP ME WRITE
SONGS. THEY'RE FANTASTIC.
JOANNA: THAT'S AWESOME.
MICHAEL: YEAH.
JOANNA: SO THEY'RE LITTLE
ROCK STARS IN THE MAKING. LITTLE
BUDDING STARS.
MICHAEL: EMILIA AND SIENNA
ARE PERFECT LITTLE ROCK STARS.
JOANNA: I LOVE IT, I LOVE IT.
UM WHERE, TELL US WHERE PEOPLE
CAN LEARN MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR PROGRAM.
MICHAEL: SURE.
JOANNA: PRESCHOOL OF
ROCK, MICHAEL AND THE ROCKNESS
MONSTERS. WHERE DO WE GO?
MICHAEL: PRESCHOOLOFROCK.COM,
YOU CAN FIND A SLEW OF
INFORMATION ON THERE. ALSO
FACEBOOK. OTHER PEOPLE'S PHOTOS,
AND, AND YOU CAN SEE WHAT
PARENTS THINK OF THE PROGRAM,
NOT JUST WHAT WE THINK OF
IT. WE THINK WE'RE GREAT.
JOANNA: OF COURSE. WE THINK
YOU'RE GREAT, TOO. UH, YOU ARE
GOING TO SCHOOLS, RIGHT? THIS
IS NOT JUST IN THE PRESCHOOL OF
ROCK LOCATIONS, YOU'RE
ALSO GOING OUT INTO SCHOOLS?
MICHAEL: WE ARE AN ENRICHMENT
PROGRAM. WE GO TO THE SCHOOL, WE
SEE ABOUT, RIGHT NOW, I'D SAY
WE SEE BETWEEN 2000 AND 2500
CHILDREN A WEEK. AND WE'RE
IN MANHATTAN, AND MUCH IN NEW
JERSEY, AND WE GO INTO THE
SCHOOL AND WE OFFER A UH,
ENRICHMENT MUSIC PROGRAM THAT IS
STEM-BASED, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING AND MATH-
JOANNA: SURE.
MICHAEL: KIND OF TYING IN A
LITTLE BIT OF EDUCATION, A LOT A
BIT, WITH THE MUSIC, BUT
WE DON'T LET THEM KNOW IT.
JOANNA: YES, THEY DON'T
KNOW THEY'RE LEARNING.
MICHAEL: SNEAK IT IN THERE.
JOANNA: IT'S LIKE THE
VEGETABLES IN THE SAUCE. YOU MIX
IT IN THEN YOU DON'T
KNOW YOU'RE GETTING IT.
MICHAEL: THAT'S RIGHT.
JOANNA: UM, AND ALSO YOU CAN
DO BIRTHDAY PARTIES. PEOPLE CAN
GET YOU FOR BIRTHDAY PARTIES.
MICHAEL: WE DO BIRTHDAYS
FOR PRESCHOOL OF ROCK, WE DO
ENRICHMENT PROGRAMS AT SCHOOLS
FOR PRESCHOOL OF ROCK, AND OUR
PARENT AND ME CLASSES.
JOANNA: I LOVE IT. MICHAEL
NAPOLITANO, FOUNDER AND DIRECTOR
OF PRESCHOOL OF ROCK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MICHAEL: THANK
YOU. SO MUCH FUN.
JOANNA: WE'RE GONNA JAM NOW?
MICHAEL: YEAH, LET'S DO IT.
JOANNA: AWESOME. I LOVE IT.
NARRATOR: LIFE AND LIVING
HAS BEEN A PRODUCTION OF:
THE CAUCUS EDUCATIONAL
CORPORATION. CELEBRATING OVER 25
YEARS OF BROADCAST EXCELLENCE.
AND NJTV.
FUNDING FOR THIS EDITION OF
LIFE AND LIVING WITH JOANNA
GAGIS HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
BERKELY COLLEGE
TD BANK
SUEZ
SHOPRITE SUPERMARKETS
PARTNERS FOR HEALTH FOUNDATION
ADLER APHASIA CENTER
AND BY
GARY'S WINE & MARKETPLACE
ADDITIONAL
SUPPORT PROVIDED BY:
MELANDRE SALON AND SULIS SPA.
LOOK BEAUTIFUL, FEEL BEAUTIFUL.
LIFE AND LIVING WITH JOANNA
GAGIS HAS BEEN PRODUCED IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH
TRISTAR STUDIOS.